docs: deprecation of Cockroachdb (#9480)
zitadel/zitadel: docs/docs/concepts/architecture/solution.md

---
title: Zitadel's Deployment Architecture
sidebar_label: Deployment Architecture
---

## High Availability

Zitadel can be run as high available system with ease. 
Since the storage layer takes the heavy lifting of making sure that data in synched across, server, data centers or regions.

Depending on your projects needs our general recommendation is to run Zitadel across multiple availability zones in the same region or across multiple regions.

> Alternatively you can run Zitadel with Postgres which is [Enterprise Supported](/docs/support/software-release-cycles-support#partially-supported).

Reviewer: alternatively to what? and also as Postgres is our only option, I guess we can omit the Enterprise Supported part

Author: removed

- Vertical on your compute infrastructure
- Horizontal in a region
- Horizontal in multiple regions

Our customers can reuse the same already known binary or container and scale it across multiple server, data center and regions.
To distribute traffic an already existing proxy infrastructure can be reused. 
Simply steer traffic by path, hostname, IP address or any other metadata to the Zitadel of your choice.

> To improve your service quality we recommend steering traffic by path to different Zitadel deployments
> Feel free to [contact us](https://zitadel.com/contact/) for details

## Example Deployment Architecture

### Single Cluster / Region

A Zitadel Cluster is a highly available IAM system with each component critical for serving traffic laid out at least three times.
Our storage layer (Postgres) is built for single region deployments.
Hence our reference design for Kubernetes is to have three application nodes and one storage node.

> If you are using a serverless offering like Google Cloud Run you can scale Zitadel from 0 to 1000 Pods without the need of deploying the node across multiple availability zones.

> ![Cluster Architecture](/img/zitadel_cluster_architecture_v3.png)

Reviewer: as far as i can see, that's the only time we use the image, can't we just replace the image itself as well?

Author: replaced

### Multi Cluster / Region

> To scale Zitadel across regions it is recommend to create at least three cluster.
> Each cluster is a fully independent ZITADEL instance.
> To keep the data in sync across all clusters, we recommend using Postgres as a storage layer, which is [Enterprise Supported](/docs/support/software-release-cycles-support#partially-supported).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To scale Zitadel across regions it is recommend to create at least three clusters.
Each cluster is a fully independent ZITADEL setup.
To keep the data in sync across all clusters, we recommend using Postgres with read-only replicas as a storage layer.
```

Reviewer: i would not use `instance` to prevent misunderstandings with the real meaning of an zitadel instance

Make sure to read our [Production Guide](/docs/self-hosting/manage/production#prefer-postgresql) before you decide to use it.
Consult the [Postgres documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/high-availability.html) for more details.

> ![Multi-Cluster Architecture](/img/zitadel_multicluster_architecture_v3.png)

Reviewer: i guess we can replace the image completely as well
